here's another very difficult function to compute
near prime of n we'll say that this function is
equal either equal to 1 or 2 it's 1 if there is a
prime P between 100 to the 100 to the N to the big
number and 100 to the 100 to the N + 10 to the 10
okay so this is a few million so we're looking for
whether there's in the next few million numbers
passed and whether there's a prime now usually
for small n there's gama's can be a certainly a
prime in that that interval which contains a few
million numbers but when we go further out into
the numbers the primes get thinner and thinner
then it's going to become the case that such a
phenomena is rarer and rarer but unfortunately
it's enormous ly difficult for us to compute any
kind of situation like this when we're talking
about numbers which are so big so although we can
sort of effectively theoretically talk about this
practically it's almost impossible to get a
hold on this kind of rule here's a function
called riemann of n which is 1 if the Riemann
hypothesis is true and 10 say otherwise the
Riemann hypothesis is a famous unsolved problem
in mathematics we don't need to worry about what
it is let's just say that a lot of people are
working on it they'd like to solve it but they
don't know whether it's true or false most people
believe it's true the question is does this define
a proper function and if not let's say in two
years from now if someone comes along and proves
or claims to prove proven agreement processes does
it suddenly make this function a valid function
and then if 10 years later someone finds a crack
in that proof what happens to the nature of the
function it's a question so our list of which
functions are going to be accepted as legitimate
rules or legitimate procedures is getting a little
bit more nebulous we're approaching the boundaries
of where this idea really should stop and start
but saying where that boundary is is much harder
let's look at some more examples are we going to
allow functions from natural numbers to natural
numbers that depend on physical quantities
that depend on the world around us for example
offspring events the number of people alive today
with end children that depends on the world in
which we live in I have to go around counting
things number of people like this is gonna be very
hard to count almost impossible in a practical way
or how about ox Adams ends the number of atoms in
n water molecules so water molecule h2o has three
atoms in it so you might say well the answer is
simply 3n but what happens when n is so big that
there are surely no amount of water molecules in
the universe of that size does this function still
make sense that's a philosophical question to me
and it's like does one hear the sound of one hand
clapping Ken wanna talk about n water molecules
if the N is so big that it's impossible for there
to be that many water molecules in the universe I
don't know and here's a function ask norm of n
with this function if you want to know what ask
norm of seven is you have to ask me and I'll
tell you okay so it's whatever Norman Jaguar
burger says it is so you want to know what ask
norm of seven years I'll tell you it's 19 I'll
also tell you that ask norm of 314 is also 19 and
ask norm of 1 is also 19 but that's all I'm gonna
tell you now if you want to know more about this
function you just sent me an email and I'll tell
you more about it ok are we gonna accept that as
a function well I think most of us would probably
say no but maybe some of you might think that's
is quite a legitimate function here's a function
related to a famous unsolved problem that's called
3/2 of n there's a famous problem that says if you
start with a number N and you do the following
procedure if it's odd you replace it with three
and plus one and if it's even you divide by two
so if we start with five for example five is odd
so you multiply by three and add one you get
16 and then you divide by two eight four two
one and then you get one and then after that
it cycles one four two one four two and people
conjecture that no matter what n you started
with it will always end up finally after long
long cycle perhaps in this cycle one forty one
forty so let's say that the function 3/2 of n is
one if this cycle with input and eventually goes
to one four two and otherwise it's too so again
nobody knows whether this function is always
one probably is equal to the constant function
well but we don't know and it's very hard for us
to compute for very very large and but this is
likely to be now you can kind of see that this is
sort of a random selection I could easily make up
dozens more curious conundrums is this a function
is this not is this rule acceptable is it not does
this procedure really make any sense or not I'm
sure you can also put make up lots of questions
like this so here's the problem the problem with
a function definition is that it's not containing
bounds on what we mean by an acceptable rule or
procedure without a very clear boundary of where
the definition stops it just doesn't really make
sense so this is a problem that you don't need a
PhD to understand I think you can all appreciate
what the difficulty is but unfortunately it's very
hard to surmount this difficulty next time I'll
tell you what I think the right way of thinking
about functions is I hope you'll join me for
that,im Norman Wildberger thanks for listening